very much, Jay, for your time today. I really appreciate it.
And I'll turn it over to you.
Thank you, Rachel. Let me quickly share my screen.
All right, perfect. So my name is Jai Singh. I work in CVS,
Aetna. Aetna is a big health insurance company here in the
US. And we were acquired by CVS, which is a big pharmacy company
here, also in the US. I work in data science. I've been in
insurance for the last six years. And I've been in data
science for more than a decade, based out of Boston. And today
I will be talking to you guys about how we have been using
Shiny to build up these rapid prototyping frameworks, which
help us take data science and operationalize it. And I'll be
showing you some of the apps that we have been using in our
day to day working. But before I begin, as always, a quick
advertisement, if you are looking for a new job, or if
you are interested in opportunities in data science,
please do consider us. We are a fortune five company, one of the
five biggest companies here in the US, great benefits, work
life balance. The other thing is that executives, they have a
very strong data hole, they love making decisions based on
data. That's why there's a lot of visibility on data science.
And we are hiring very, very rapidly all across the US. If
you are interested in opportunities anywhere in the US
to contact us, we are hiring from all different roles, from
analysts, all the way up to senior directors. And if you're
interested, you can always Google CVS data science and you
look at the opportunities, but a better way is just email me.
And I can shortcut you through through most of the process and
get you in get your foot in the door pretty quickly with
interviews. So do consider us if you are looking to make a
switch or if you're interested in data science at CVS at now.
Alright, so rapid prototyping, essentially is taking what
whatever analysis you're doing. And if you feel like you will do
it more than twice, then you build a web app out of it. And
this tends to help you in a lot of different ways. One of the
biggest things it helps you with is that now you can share the
minimum viable product with a bunch of different people and
they can iterate through it. And that will help you get the most
efficient and optimized analysis. And it makes it very
reputable, you can make a GitHub page. But if you make a shiny
app, it's easier for people who are not R or Python, or just in
general, SAS users to play with your analysis and quickly get to
the endpoint faster. So it standardizes a lot of it. So
that's why rapid prototyping, you would see that it's it's a
very common theme in different industry paradigms. People in
statistics will be familiar with Chris TM, which is cross
industry standard process for data mining, where you start
with the data, you perform data pre processing, you build a
model, you evaluate how well the model is working, you deploy it.
And then usually you go back to the business and they tell you
everything you've done is completely wrong. And you start
from scratch. So Chris TM, design thinking, agile, you'll
see they're all very circular. And essentially, what they're
trying to do is get to the minimum viable product faster,
and then test and learn. And to do this, you can use all these
different frameworks. In data science, you can build web
applications. And if you look at the history of web applications,
it started with the HTML in the 1990s, probably some lonely grad
student in a in some computer science department made this up,
probably not. And then over the years, you saw that it has
evolved. And now we got in close to 2000, we got these web
applications made in Java. In 2014, we got our shiny, which
changed a lot of how web apps are made. It was developed by a
Cho Chang. And essentially, it removes you from trying to have
expertise in HTML, CSS and JS. And you can actually build your
applications, which are data science heavy. And you can make
them with an interface, which is very, very pretty, a GUI, which
looks good and easy to navigate. Now, over the few years, now you
have a bunch of different web app tool frameworks like flask,
dash, streamlit. But I still prefer shiny. And I'll tell you
why. Now there are trade offs. So you can consider building your
web applications in different frameworks. So you can use
flask, which is Python based. And you can sort of mix flask
with JavaScript. To make a web application. This is throughout a
lot of different companies, especially if you see things on
websites, this is they use it with Django. And this is this is
the way they use most of the web applications. Dash is pretty
popular. Tableau is more for dashboarding. And I'm sure you
guys are aware of how Tableau dashboards have been made and
employed throughout the world. And then obviously, they're
shiny. Then you can compare all of these different frameworks on
all of these different measures. The three ones that I find very
important are just stack overflow support. So if you are
a data scientist, you know how much how important it is for you
to have support and be able to find help online. And I find
that shiny tends to have a lot of help online just because it
was the first to market. A lot of people have failed doing the
same things that you are trying to do. So that tends to help. It
is popular with data scientists just because R is one of the two
biggest languages for data science. You will speak the same
language and somebody who comes after you will be able to
maintain the apps that you have created. And finally, it's free
of cost, which is pretty important. You don't want to
pay $3,000 for a software package, which in the end, if it
does, if it doesn't add to the free tools that are out there,
then you've essentially cost the company 3000 bucks. So that's
one of the areas that I think shiny tends to shine or do very
well overall. Now, if you're not familiar with, when do you use
web apps, which I highly doubt if you're in this meetup, then
you would use web apps when you want to revisit the same code
for different projects. So if you're trying to do something
similar over the different projects, you can make a web app
out of it. If you want to introduce a new technique, I've
seen this work pretty well. One of the apps that I'll show you
today is the comorbidity analysis, which is a technique
that I had published a paper in academia, but wasn't used in
industry too often. And making a web app tends to help with
that. It leads to faster adoption of whatever you're
trying to sell. And finally, the most critical one is if you're
trying, if there is an analysis that you do that has multiple
steps, and that analysis is pretty common. So multiple
groups within your organization are using a similar framework,
and then getting different answers or different variations
of the same answer, and then presenting it to the business,
this leads to a lot of confusion. So if you standardize
your whole data science process, and you build a web app that
everybody can use, then that tends to shorten the time to
analysis. And it also helps in standardization overall. And
usually, web apps are more useful when you need slightly
more than just dashboarding. If you just need dashboarding,
then the best things are Power BI and Tableau.
So what do you do when you're trying to make a decision on
whether you should build a web application in house? Or should
you outsource it to somebody else? Now, there are seven. Now
there are seven different things you can consider. Cost. So if
you're trying to buy it, that is you're trying to get somebody
else to build it for you from outside the org, it will be more
costly. The customizations, you might be able to get some
customizations, but more additional customizations will
cost you even more. And then the biggest one is knowledge gain,
you will not have the knowledge gain somebody else will. It'll
save you on man hours, build time and support. If you build
it in house, which Shiny allows you to do build these rapid
prototyping frameworks in house very quickly, then it will be
cheap, essentially be free will only be the man hours that the
data scientist requires. It'll be very customized. And you will
have knowledge gain, it will take some time for your
department to build these apps. And you are the support if you
build the app. Obviously, it requires majority of your time.
So these are some of the downsides of whether you should
be building an app, or you should be buying a solution from
from outside. All right. Having said that today, I will show you
some of the apps that I've built for CVS. And how have they
how have they been used? Some of the different ones are the
first one that I'll show you is called the clustering and
profiling app. It's a web application that does market
segmentation, which is pretty standard, you're trying to find
groups of people that are similar to each other in in a
diverse population. I'll show you a comorbidity analysis app,
which is useful for finding comorbidities. Now, in health
insurance or in health care, comorbidities are when you have
one more than one health condition. So suppose you have
diabetes and hypertension, then you have two conditions. So it's
a comorbidity. I'll show you a propensity score matching app.
So this comes from causal inference. So if you do not have
a randomized control trial, so it's not randomized. So you have
to do quasi experimental methods, like matching.
Essentially, what you're trying to do is create a synthetic
control group. And to find these controls who are similar to
your test group, you have to match them on different
criteria, the different features. And to do that, you
can use this app called propensity score matching app,
this is more causal inference. I'll also quickly show you the
equal tool that I built for a competition within my company,
it's called the competition was called ABC. And they judged you
on how innovative your app was, how much money will it save the
company and how good looking you are. So obviously, I was in
the top five. But what equal does is equal stands for
eliminate quantitative unfairness in algorithms. Now
you might have heard of how predictive models might be
propagating bias in algorithms. So because algorithms or models
are built on real life data. And if there is bias in in the data
set, there are historical biases in the data set, a model will
not only propagate them, it will accentuate them. So because
CVS is very big on fairness and equality, we have checked all
our models to make sure that we are equal, we are fair, and we
are unjust. And this tool is being used to do some of those
things. We also have a topic modeling app that I will not
show you today, which uses NLP. And it does some topic modeling
on notes that people get from from customer care. All right.
So the first app, which is the clustering and profiling app, the
big problem was that multiple teams were performing customer
segmentation. And they were all using slightly different
methodologies, but slightly different variations. And they
were getting similar results, but not quite. And then they were
presenting it to different business units, which was
causing confusion, confusion. And this comes from the fact
that people have been trained in market segmentation, but everybody
uses a slightly different route. They present their results
slightly differently. People are either R users, Python users, or
SAS users, and they use different variations, they use
different little things like imputations, or capping, they're
they're slightly different. And the end result tends to be
different. This confuses everybody. And in the end, a
department like marketing who's trying to figure out what
segments exist in, say, a population in Boston, if they
get different answers from different business units, they
have to recalibrate very often. And this costs a lot of time and
money, obviously. So this was the big problem that we were
facing. Now, the clustering and profiling app helps you get to
clustering insights faster. It's a web application developed
in, in R Shiny. At CVS Health, we have an RStudio environment,
where you can publish these apps. We also have support for
Python and SAS as well. And the way this app works is it uses
four steps. It performs exploratory data analysis, it
does the actual clustering, it also gives you insight
generation. So it'll look at your results, and it'll tell you
what are the groups, how do they look like? It's again, again,
it's agile framework, you can rapidly iterate through multiple
things, you can change whatever you like. And this is mainly for
people who are familiar with clustering and how this market
segmentation analysis work. It's not for people who don't have a
background in data science, because then these results can
they can get a little confusing for you. And just to just to
tell you how it has changed the way we do market segmentation.
Before this app, we had to do a bunch of these different steps.
And now we can rapidly iterate on all of these different steps.
For example, for EDA, we had to do all these missing data
renaming and correlations. And now it's a once click EDA.
Similarly, we do similarly for clustering, profiling, insight
generation, summarization, and even subsegment analysis. It's
now all semi automated, and it's way quicker now. Right, moving
on to the app.
Alright, so this is how the app looks like. You can come in, you
can take a quick tour, which will introduce you to the
different parts of the app. Essentially, what you do is you
can import your data, you can explore it. So you can explore
your data, get summaries, missing values, correlations, you
can find clusters in your data, you can use different methods
for clustering, we use, we prefer create prototypes for mixed
data. You can then profile the clusters you found. So for
example, you found these three different clusters in your data
set, then you can profile them, you can, you can quickly find
that these clusters differ in age and their risk. And then you
can also get more detailed insights, you can find out what
are the key variables that triage this risk. So the data
consists of people who are either below 50 or above 50. If
they are below 50, they go in the first cluster, if they're
not, they can be further bifurcated by risk. And then
they can go into cluster two and three. So you can use decision
trees to form these clusters. To enable, so the one thing that
I've learned by making these apps and launching it to a small
audience is, the more explanations you can give, the
more intuitive it is, the better. And that's why using
JavaScript in here for all of these different helper little
boxes, that tends to be very useful. And just giving them
directions up top, it all, it's very useful for people who are
not very familiar with your app. Also uploading a toy data set
is highly recommended. If you've not, if you just directly put in
an upload your own data, then people get confused. So I put in
like three or four different toy data sets that you can use from
different sources. I'll show you clinical data since I work for
Aetna. So let's look at this data set, which is just it's
fake. It is a data set of members with different diseases.
And different characteristics. And you can pick the different
variables that you want to include in your analysis. Up
here, you can quickly explore the data and get summaries. You
can find what percentage of zeros exist within your data set,
you can find what how many different what is the different
types of factors within each variable, and what kind of
variable is it. And it'll give you like missing data summaries
as well. Now, this is pretty powerful, you can quickly get
summaries, you can download all of this in either of the formats
that you want. So you if you want a PDF, you can quickly
download this as a PDF. And it'll give you all of these
summaries in whatever format. It'll show you correlations very
quickly, you can find what are the variables that are very
correlated with each other. So if you spend days in an inpatient
facility, you will obviously have very high medical costs. So
that's, that's why you have high correlations. And you can view
your raw data, whatever you have uploaded. Also, you might want
to remove variables which are very highly correlated. So then
you can remove those variables, right here going forward,
they'll be excluded from the rest of the analysis. So this is
how you explore data. Then you can go into the clustering
analysis where you say decide the number of clusters, a very
common data science clustering 101 technique using the elbow
method. And then you can choose whatever, whatever method you
want for your clustering algorithm. And just quickly
click to cluster. And for example, if you use three
clusters, then it gives you this result. And you can also change
clusters according to business needs. So if the business says
three is too little, we need something between four to six.
And you and if you've done this before, you know that market
segmentation is not a pure data science exercise. It's a mix,
it's a mix between what the business wants and what you can
give them. So you can very quickly iterate on what you want.
Also, we've seen that the variables that we have, some of
them are continuous, and some of them are categorical. Sometimes
you might want to weigh the continuous variables a little
more. Things like age tend to have more information in them,
say age between 18 to 90. Then binary variables like do you
have a Ferrari or not. So we do want to exploit that higher
information content in continuous variables. So you can
also play around with the weightage that you put on the
different variable types. So for example, we chose three
clusters. And these are the three clusters that you've got
right now. You can download all the results at this stage. Or
you can go on to the next part, where you get some more insights
into how your clusters look. So this gives you the distribution
of clusters will give you either the count if it's a binary
variable, say gender male, it's a binary variable, it will give
you the count and the percentage. So 59.3% of the
members in the first cluster are male. In the second cluster, you
have 55% of the members are male, so more males. And in the
last one, it's more females, only 15% of them are males. And
they'll give you the average risk or what percentage of them
have asthma. So 6% of cluster one have asthma. So this is
giving you insights very quickly. What is more
interesting in is how they compare to each other, which is
what we get in the next tab. Now it'll tell you for males, the
first two clusters are very heavily male, the third one, not
so much. Similarly, for age, the first two clusters are more
older, the third one is younger. So now you can see very quickly
you're forming a profile for these clusters, you're, you're
saying that the first two clusters are male, older, the
third cluster is more female and younger. Finally, you can also
get the profiles of these clusters generated. So from the
z-scores that I've, I was showing here, you can very
quickly find the top variables that define a cluster. So
cluster one tends to be people who are obese, they are either
they're more rural, and they have metabolic syndrome and so
forth on. And if you go back and change your clustering
algorithm, all of this will change very quickly. So suppose
you wanted four clusters, you think the three clusters you
have are not very good, then you can just come back and very
quickly change all of this results, and you'll have four
clusters. So you see iterating through your data set now
becomes very easy. It's very intuitive. So now you have your
four clusters, you've done everything. And now you want to
understand your clusters. This is where the decision tree, the
CART algorithm comes in. And what we have done here is we've
we're trying to build a decision tree trying to predict what are
the different clusters and how do you get to them. So the
different clusters are shown in different colors. So you have
cluster number one, two, cluster number three, and cluster number
four here. And if you have an inpatient score of greater than
35, age less than 59, then you will fall in cluster number
four. So now you've got the rules as well. So now you can
identify, there are four clusters in my data. And these
are the rules that allow me to get to a population which will
be cluster number four. It'll give you variable importance
based on the CART model, it'll also give you the rules written
out. So it'll tell you what percentage 36% of the members
will follow this rule, and so forth on. So this tends to be
very powerful. Finally, you're done with your analysis, what it
does is now it download an Excel file with all the results and a
formatted PowerPoint. So not only you've completed your
analysis, it'll give you a formatted Aetna PowerPoint with
Aetna, custom fonts, charts, everything. So now you can just
take this analysis and show it to your business unit, and they
would know what you are talking about. And this tends to be very
powerful, you've completed a segmentation exercise in minutes,
which usually takes our business units, which were
working alone with either their own code and iterating through
different steps, weeks to do. Just to show you how the final
PowerPoint looks. So this is the final PowerPoint that it has
downloaded, it shows you all the different steps, it shows you
how many clusters were found, and so forth on the methodology
that you used. Finally, we did put in a feedback form, we
wanted to learn from the audience and get better. So we
are trying to measure things like customer satisfaction
score and net promoter scores, and also trying to get more
feedback on what what changes would they want.
So let me get back to the PowerPoint.
So we've used this for different projects
within the org. Some of the examples are here. The one
project that I will talk about is this meditation app that we
had done a project with. So this meditation app was sent out to a
bunch of different people. And apart, some of them got engaged,
that is they did download the app and they signed up. So we
wanted to see what are the different segments that exist
within the people who've downloaded this meditation app.
And we found using the app, we found that there are four
different segments. And using the insights part of the app,
we found that three of those segments, so you can use four
variables to understand how these segments are made. The
first is gender, the first three of the segments are female, they
are 8800 100% female, the last one is male, then it's risk. So
in health insurance, you define risk as how sick a member is how
risky he is in the next one year. So within the females, now
you can bifurcate on risk. So one of them is high risk to our
low risk within the female low risk segment. Now you can
bifurcate on income, one of them is higher income, and one of
them is lower income. So now you understand that the people who
are downloading this app are falling in these four buckets.
And in the next iteration of the app, you can send out emails
which are more customized, you can target females who are older
and lower income, compared to males who are low risk and low
income, and you can send out these creatives accordingly. And
hopefully you'll get a more higher engagement rate. So this
is how this app quickly led to us getting a more engaged
population, more people meditating in general, and you
do see impact.
Now the app was a hit. And the way we can call it a hit is we
can measure it on three things, we can measure it on what users
tell us. So we can use things like how many people like this
on our internal social media page, what was the customer
satisfaction score, so forth on us. We can also find out things
that the customer do not tell us, but we know. So we can we
put little trackers within the app, which can help us count the
number of people who view the app, the number of people who
uploaded their data set, the number of people who ran their
analysis, and the number of people who downloaded the end
result. And we can use that as a metric to say, hey, this app is
actually making a lot of impact because 81 people have
downloaded their entire project results, and I've used them. And
then there are the unknown unknowns, which is people might
have used this app and got inspiration to do other
projects and quantifying that impact is a little harder.
All right.
So the next app I want to show you is a comorbidity or a
multimorbidity analysis app. Now, as I said, a comorbidity
is two diseases. So if you have two diseases, it's comorbidities
that you have. If you have more than two diseases, it's
multimorbidities. And the figure on the left, it shows you that
if you have a heart condition, or if you have cancer, then your
life expectancy tends to decrease by the number of
additional health conditions you have. So if you only had a heart
disease, your life expectancy after you first got heart
disease was say 20 years. Every additional disease, if you got
diabetes along with it, then it'll start decreasing your life
expectancy. And on average, your life expectancy decreases by two
years for every additional condition you have. So if you
only had heart condition, and now you've also got diabetes,
then your life expectancy just decreased by on average 1.8
years for every additional condition you have. So
multimorbidities are costly. And comorbidities are costly. In
fact, we also looked at our own internal data and we found the
same trend. The more diseases you have, the more number of
additional diseases you have, the more costly you get in the
next one year for us. And obviously, for us, our main
goal is to make our members healthy and save money in the
process. So trying to find this population, trying to figure out
what are the most common multimorbidities and what are
the most expensive multimorbidities, what are the
most impactable multimorbidities is very, very central to our
whole business. Now, the analysis I'll show you uses
something called market basket analysis, or association rules.
People in retail are must be familiar with this analysis.
Essentially, what it is, is if you had these, if you've, if
you're sitting at Walmart, at the cashier's register, and you
see people make these different transactions. So in the first
transaction, they bought an apple, a beer, cocaine or
sugar, I'm not sure what and then meat. And these are the
different transactions that they had, then you can calculate
three essential metrics. The first is support. So four out of
the eight transaction contained an apple, so the support is
0.5. If then you can also define confidence, that is the people
who bought an apple and a beer among the total number of people
who bought an apple. So here, you would just try to find how
many people who bought an apple also bought a beer. So that is
a confidence. And finally lift is just how much more likely are
you to buy a beer if you bought an apple. And if you have a lift
greater than one, that that means there is a positive
association. So you're more likely to buy an apple if you
bought beer. And if a lift of left less than one is negative
association, that is you're less likely to buy it. Now, you might
have heard of stories where they've used association rules
like diapers are now kept with beer. And it's because
association rules show that people on I think Tuesday or
Wednesday night, they tend to go out to Walmart, and they look
they will buy beer with diapers more likely these are parents
who are just trying to get a diaper and they'll be like, okay,
I need a beer too. And so these are used either they put the
things together, or they might put them on opposite ends of the
store. So if you go to Walmart, if they found out that you need
Apple, if you need beer and diapers, they'll put beer at the
front of the store and diapers at the very back. So then you
will walk through the whole store and buy more things. So
that's how they use association rules in retail. Now you can
employ this the same logic in healthcare as well. You can
define support as the number of people who have disease one and
disease two overall. So if you have 100 patients, how many of
them have hypertension and diabetes? Confidence is how many
people who have the two diseases divided by the number of people
who have the disease of your interest. So of the people who
are diabetic, how many of them also have hypertension? And the
lift is just then how much more likely are you to have
hypertension if you already had diabetes, if your lift is more
than one, then you're more likely if it is less than one,
you're less likely. And so this is a paper that that uses
association rules for comorbidity analysis. And there
have been a lot of different papers that have used it
including myself, I published some research on using
association rule in comorbidity analysis. So, again, in the app,
what we did is we put in our generic exploratory data analysis
part where you look at missing data, you do correlations,
things like that. But specifically the use cases that
you can use are you can answer questions like what are the most
common multi morbidities in the population? What are the most
expensive multi multi morbidities in the population
and so forth on. So let me quickly show you the app.
Just takes a second to load. In the meantime, if you guys have
any questions, please feel free to put them in the chat. And I
hope to have some time in the end for questions as well.
Alright, so here's the app. Again, it's a generic
again, it's you can you can use this app for all of these
different parts of multi of comorbidity analysis. You can
also find literature here on PubMed. And if you have any
questions, you can send them to me. I did upload a toy data set
again, and you can select the this toy data set is just all
the it has like 1000s of members, along with all the
different diseases that they have. So if you have say HIV,
AIDS, then you'll your row will say one, otherwise it will be
zero. So it's just binary data for all the different members.
You can do exploratory data analysis. Find all of these
different things in here. Very similar to ones that I've shown
you before. And then you can very quickly find things like
what are the most common comorbidities in my data. So
you just sort by support. And you would see hypertension with
hyperlipidemia. So if you have more cholesterol and your blood
pressure is high, that tends to be the most common. In fact, 58%
of the members we see this combination. So this is a
combination of two what if you're interested in a
combination of three or more diseases, what are the most
common three or more conditions. And again, you can very quickly
sort on this and you see that diabetes with hyperlipidemia and
hypertension is the most common three diseases and so forth. And
you can keep very quickly change what what you want to find
overall. So it gives you what are the most common
multimorbidities overall. Another question you might want
to use it for is in our most expensive members and by most
expensive we define them as the top quartile of all the medical
costs in the next one year. So if you are in the top 25% of
cost in the next one year, what conditions would you have? And
suppose we want to see conditions from two all the way
up to five, then very quickly you can find if you have ischemic
heart disease with hyperlipidemia and hypertension,
you will be very costly for us in the in the coming one year.
Sorry, I apologize. So you'll use confidence. And the most
costly conditions would be heart failure, renal failure, in
general. So renal failure tends to be you have to go on dialysis.
So it's more expensive. And if you had had heart failure, more
more likely you're more likely to have certain heart procedures
which are very expensive. And that's why it's coming on top.
So so this is an example of how you can quickly use this. Again,
you can download all of this as an Excel file. Or you can just
print it as well. And this tends to be very powerful in quickly
finding out what are the most important comorbidities that you
have. I only have 20 minutes left. So I'll skip this the
other parts. I do want to show you one cool thing. So I do have
some documentation. But the cool thing that I added in here is a
chat bot. So often people have simple questions that you have
to answer again and again, a way around it is to use a chat
bot function. I use a Dialogflow API. So Dialogflow is now
acquired by Google. And they use natural language processing. And
you can specify certain web pages that they can scrape for
information. And then they look at keywords and give you the
replies from those web pages. You can also input your own
answers that you have. So you can even chat with it actually.
But things like
so you can ask simple questions that you had, for example,
what's the maximum size of files that I can upload? What what do
I do if I get this error, things like that, you can make a chat
bot, it's easier than having a document that people have to
scroll, scroll through. And then as I said, you can add admin
tracking in here, I can track what people have been using it
and how long have they used it for how many hours they have
done. So, so, so this is one example where you can look at
comorbidities related to health conditions, you can also look at
drug combinations. So if you had a data set with different drug
drugs, so drugs for hypertension or drugs for anticoagulants or
something, then you can quickly find find out what are the most
common drug combinations that people have been using? What are
the most expensive drugs that people have been using? And
that's pretty powerful. Right, yeah, so you can use what, what
are the different drug combinations that they are using?
What are the combination of diseases that most expensive
cohort of members have and so forth on? Moving on to the
propensity score matching app.
There's quite a few questions coming in and the Slido as well.
If maybe we could cover those and some of those in a few
minutes, too. That would be awesome.
Sure. Yep. I think I'll be done in 10 minutes. All right, so
propensity score matching app, as I said, propensity score
matching is a tool that you can use to help you find out what
people have been using and how long have they been using it.
Alright, so propensity score matching app, as I said,
propensity score matching is a is a causal inference technique.
So if you do not have a randomized control trial, and
you only have a treatment group and you want to estimate the
average treatment effect, then you would have to find people
who are who can be a synthetic control. And then you have to
create for every member in the treatment group, you have to
find a matching member who's very similar. And you can use
him as a control. So say if a member was living in a
metropolitan city, he was a middle aged male, his candy
based candy crunch score was 50 in candy crunch, then you would
have to find a control member who had all of those similar
similar characteristics. So to do that, you use something
called propensity score matching. It's a very popular
technique in quasi experimental
trials. And you can use this analysis to do different things,
you can find baseline characteristics. I apologize if
this sounds a little foreign to you. But this is more for
experimental analysis for it's very useful in when you're
trying to run quasi experiments. So the usual process of running
these experiments is first you have to find baseline
characteristics. That is, at the baseline, how much are my
treatment group differ different from the control
group, then you match them, you find people who are similar in
the treatment, and you find matching controls. And after
you found them, you try to quantify have I been able to
remove all the differences that were there in before matching.
And then you also sometimes perform something called the
sensitivity analysis. So this is something that we, we tend to
run a lot of these quasi experiments, and we have to do
propensity score matching quite often. And for that we use this
analysis.
Yep, and this is an app that created for propensity score
matching, you can perform exploratory analysis, you can
find covariate distribution, perform the propensity score
matching, you can iterate the analysis and download formatted
results, again, upload your own data or use toy data set, and
find all of these, you can find the missing data, and so forth
on. And then you can finally do the propensity score matching,
which which is an allows the whole analysis and download your
final results. Again, I also have a propensity score matching
chatbot, very similar to the one that I showed you before this.
And in the last five minutes, I do want to talk about one other
tool, which is equal, which
sorry to interrupt, but just because you were showing that
chatbot right now, I know there were a few questions on that. And
one of the questions was, can we have real time customer service
through this tool? Or is it just based on NLP?
And then right now the chat? Yep, sorry. Sorry, go ahead.
And then also just if you could maybe share a GitHub or resource
for that chatbot later as well.
Sure. So the first part of the question, whether we can have a
live customer rep who can use this chatbot. So I have not done
it, just because I was trying to build this app. And I was
hoping to automate all of the questions that people have. I
have not. But in Dialogflow from Google, you can also add that
that third party integration, where if a question that the
customer has asked does not match with any of the pre listed
things that then that the chatbot can answer, then it can
ping and ping you on a certain address and let you know that
hey, transfer this person to a live rep. So you can do that in
Dialogflow and a lot of companies here, they actually
use that functionality. Besides the NLP. Yep. And the second
part was can I share the code? So for the apps, I cannot share
the code just because it belongs to the company now. But I have a
lot of different other shiny apps, which use very similar
methodology. You can find it if you look on if you go on my
GitHub, Shatrunjay on GitHub, you will find all my apps, you'll
find the different Tableau dashboards that I built some of
the Flask apps that I built as well. Feel free to message me
for anything that you're looking for. I'll share my email address
at the end. And if you're looking for some collaboration
or consultation, I would love to.
Would you mind dropping that GitHub into the chat here? I'll
put it in right now for you. Sure.
Alright, so equal, which is which stands for eliminate
quantitative bias and algorithms. This is an app that
I built for an internal competition. And what it does is
it tries to remove bias from predictive models. At CVS, it's
it's now our number one priority. Make sure none of the
models have any sort of bias in them and all our models go
through this check and we make sure that all the models are
fair, equal to everything. And to do this, what we do, what the
steps that we take is first, when you come in, you answer
these three questions, which help us find out what are the
metrics that you should be looking for fairness. So
fairness, you if you've heard of fairness metrics, there are
things like this part, it impact parity and so forth on. And
answering these three simple questions will help you
identify what metrics are important for me. This will pull
all the data on on the members you're interested in. So there
are 11 protected attributes here in the US. You cannot be
discriminated on age, gender, national origin, religion,
handicaps, handicap status, status, pregnancy, medical
and behavioral health conditions. So it'll pull all of
this data and then it'll check all the different models we can
build. Predictive models can be regression or classification.
It will check all the different steps pre processing during the
model build and post processing for bias and then it will save
your results at a specific place. It will give you an HTML
or a Word document. And again, equal is built as a shiny app
with JavaScript, so it is zero coding language agnostic. It can
work with both R or Python models that have been uploaded.
So so equal was built to simplify this this pathway that
the data scientist has to take from starting from the model
build all the way up to model deployment. So let me quickly
show you. How equal looks?
Alright, while this loads, maybe I can just switch to the
last slide, which is again. Thank you and I'll take any
questions you have. And again, if you are interested in
working in data science for us to email me at my email, which
is sing s 22 at etna.com. And if you have any other questions
on code or any suggestions for the apps that you're trying to
build or dashboards you're trying to build, or if you want
to collaborate on something, please email me on my personal
email, which is just my first name.
At gmail.com.
Alright, so this is how equal looks.
You can come in. You can take again a very quick tour on the
different parts in in in the app and what what do they do? You
can explore your data. You can evaluate the bias in your data
set. You can find out is my input data biased or my models
biased or not. And then you can also eliminate this bias. It
uses techniques in pre processing, post processing and
model build things like adversarial debiasing to remove
bias from your data set. Follow some of the same steps that I've
shown previously where you can explore your data. You can
customize your metrics. You can find different different bias
metrics. You can mitigate them and you can download all your
results as well.
So I'll stop there and and take some of the questions that we
have. Awesome, thank you so much day that that was great and
so cool to see all the applications too. I know people
are right now is still putting in some questions in Slido and
if anything goes unanswered in the time we have today, I can
definitely send those over to Jade and get the questions
answered too. But the top question so far that had been
upvoted a few times was what kind of process do you use to
What kind of process do you use for updating the application?
Do you have any sort of defined deployment process?
So the deployment process that we use is through RStudio
Connect. We have a broad version, the production version
and a dev version. The process that we use is first we build
an MVP, a very simple version of the app which just does the
basic end to end analysis and then we upload it to the
development server. We give it to a small number of people and
we perform test and learn so we would ask them to use it in a
way that they would traditionally use it and try to
and give us hints on where they got stuck and what can we
improve. And this usually takes one month and then we get all
the feedback from them. We try to put in the most critical
elements into the dev two in the better two and then we launch
it to a slightly different bigger population. And if there
are no big hiccups, then we move this from the dev version
to the broad version where we launch it throughout the
company. We recalibrate all our analysis every one and a half
months early on and after the first six months we use a six
month iterative calibration cycle. So every six months we
would revisit it, see how the data changed, how the analysis,
sometimes the packages are changed, is the app working as
it was intended to work in the original version or not. And I've
there are then we have some downtime, we optimize the app
and put it back again. So that's the cycle, traditional
cycle that we use. Great, thanks Jay. Another one of the
questions that was upvoted is how do you actually quickly set
up that tour of the Shiny app? I think it was in the first
Shiny app that you showed. So that's through a package called
ShinyBS. You can use tooltips and these introduction videos.
There's another package, I think it's called IntroJS. So
IntroJS was also, it's a JavaScript library and now a lot
of these JavaScript libraries you will find are packages that
you can, you don't have to write JavaScript code, they will add
it to your UI. And so you can Google things like ShinyBS and
IntroJS, our package, and you will find the packages that you
can use to set up the quick tour functionality. Awesome. And
if anyone else on the call has other recommendations to or
things you want to put in the chat window, that's always super
helpful for people too. Another question, Jay, was how do you
position Shiny over Tableau? Like what would you use Tableau
for and when do you decide that it would have to be in Shiny?
So actually, that's a great question. And just a little
background. So I was a big Tableau user. I actually won
the Tableau Massachusetts competition three years ago. So
I was a big Tableau user, but Tableau has limitations. The one
limitation is that you cannot do advanced analytics in Tableau.
You can do visualizations, you can slice and dice data. The
most advanced data science you can do in Tableau right now is
you can do regression. So you can fit a simple line to your
data set. And that is the limit of what you can do. But if you
want to use some of the algorithms, for example, if you
want to use the segmentation or the comorbidity association
rules that I've used here, then Tableau cannot do that. It can
make your data look pretty, but it cannot do that analysis. And
to do that analysis, you will have to use either R or Python
Flask. Within R and Python, I feel like most of the research
community, people like me who were in research, we tend to
publish all of our research as R packages. So you would usually
see things coming out of research going into R first. And
if they're very useful for industry, there'll be a Python
package that is now copying that R package. So with Shiny or
Flask, you can use the latest and greatest data science
advanced analytics, along with visualization, the
visualization might not look as neat as a Tableau, just because
it's been designed by like professionals, but it will still
be more advanced, you can do these analysis, which are more
complicated in R.
Thank you, Jay, that's really helpful. I know, you know, that
question seems to come up on quite a few meetups, too. So
maybe it'd be helpful for us to even have a full a longer talk
on that, too. Another question, I know, we have just a few more
minutes here. But should age asked, Hey, Jay, have you
encountered scenarios where you want to run clustering on big
data sets, upwards of 10 million rows from within Shiny?
So, so the one thing I would say is that most of the Shiny apps
that I've shown you, it tends to run on smaller data sets. For
bigger data sets, Shiny for for the current for the knowledge
that the limited knowledge that I have in the use that I have
had, the scalability tends to be an issue later on. Now,
recently, there have been new packages that you can use to
paralyze the analysis. And you can use delay methodology. So
you can, you don't have to perform the analysis. Right,
then you can use a catch or you can delay the analysis later on.
And that makes the flow, the user experience faster. But if
you are trying to use big data analysis, then Shiny might not
be the best idea shortage. Or it might be maybe I don't know.
But for those kind of analysis, trying to build a live app, you
tend to work better with some of the other big data
methodologies. So if you're running your analysis on, say,
Spark, then you can use things that that go on top of a Spark
analysis. And you can use dashboarding there to analyze
those process flows, and they'll be much more efficient. And
they won't bug your users than a slower app, which tends to
bug people a lot. Thank you. And for one of the last
questions today, I see Tony asked, could you talk about the
bias detection app? Is there any public info on that?
So there is a lot of free public information out there. IBM
came up with something called IBM 360, Fairness 360, which is
a comprehensive set of tools built by people who are
actually researchers and professors at university. Very
extensive package. It's both an R and a Python package, AI360,
which for me, the one thing with that package is it tends to be
confusing just because they put in so many different details.
For a user who just wants to check his model for bias, I
would be a little confused on what metrics should I use? And
what does actually bias mean? So Google has come out with their
own fairness package. It's a web app that you can quickly use,
import your data set and find out whether, say, there is race
or gender bias in your data set or not. So there are different
methodologies that are out there. For your own specific
customized use case, I would say you would have to actually
study the material and then come up with what is the most useful
for you. But a lot of literature out there.
Great. Thank you so much. I know we're just getting to the
end of our time that we had scheduled today. So I just want
to say thank you so much, Jay, for the awesome presentation.